# Frequently Asked Questions
- **General Questions**
 - [What is this project's relationship with ES-DE?](#faq-esde)
 - [How were the images included in this respository generated?](#faq-image-generation)
 - [Are the images included in this repository crowdsourced?](#faq-crowdsourcing)
 - [What are the image standards for Android covers?](#faq-banners)
 - [Why are images in this repository provided in WebP format?](#faq-webp)
- **Troubleshooting**
 -[None of the images are working. What did I do wrong?](#faq-ts-directory)
 - [I'm not seeing the right image for X application.](#faq-ts-wrong-image)


## General Questions
<a name="faq-esde"></a>
### What is this project's relationship with ES-DE?

This free, open-source project is maintained completely independently of the ES-DE frontend. However, contributors to this project collaborate frequently with the developers of ES-DE to improve the metadata and screenscraping functionality for Android applications and games.

While the images contained in this repository are designed to be easily used with the ES-DE frontend, we encourage developers of other emulation frontend and app launchers to use this library of images in their projects.

<a name="faq-image-generation"></a>
### How were the images included in this respository generated?

Most images came directly from the game publisher as key art distributed for promotional purposes. We retrieved these images from the following sources, in order of preference:
1. Publisher / Developer Press Kits
2. Publisher / Developer Web Site
3. High Resolution Store Fronts (Nintendo Switch, Playstation Store, Epic Games Store)
4. Medium Resolution Store Fronts (Google Play, Amazon App Store)
5. Low Resolution Store Fronts (Steam, GOG)

From here, approximately 60% of images were simply downscaled to 720P, 20% were AI Upscaled, and 20% were rebuilt from a reference image using high resolution assets. 

In all cases, we used the best method available to achieve the highest possible level of fidelity, but there are certainly cases where we were constrained by the quality of the source assets. Feel free to flag anything that doesn't look right as an Issue and we may be able to work with the Developer or Publisher to get access to higher quality artwork.

<a name="faq-crowdsourcing"></a>
### Are the images included in this repository crowdsourced?

No. To maintain the highest standard of image quality possible, images are generated by trained contributors using a common set of tools and approaches. Individuals with a moderate level of experience using Photoshop or GIMP and integrating AI upscaling and content generation tools into their workflow can apply to volunteer.

A small (<5%) number of marquees were ported from the SteamGridDB project. Those artists are credited in the Acknowledgments section of README.md,

<a name="faq-banners"></a>
### What are the image standards for Android covers?]
Android apps do not have physical releases so much thought was put into which aspect ratio and resolution to use when creating Cover Art assets. The 1920x720 Banner standard was ultimately chosen because it shares the Aspect Ratio requirement of the Featured Image on Google Play and the Resolution Requirement of the TV Banner required for publishing to Android TV.

The Steam Grid Capsule format was considered, but ultimately rejected for being too low resolution. Though certainly high enough resoultion for handhelds, it does not provide enough headroom for 4K and 8K displays in the future.

<a name="faq-webp"></a>
### Why are images in this repository provided in WebP format?
Image compression has advanced considerably since most game preservation projects started. Once an unproven format with low compatibility, WebP has grown to be the dominant standard for web based images due to its vastly superior compression algorithm and flexible implementation. With WebP, we are able to provide near-lossless image quality at at average 40% reduction in file size.

For production, scrapable images we use the following settings to achieve maximum compression with minimal impact to visual fidelity:
``` cwebp -mt -q 99 -z 9 -m 6 ```

## Troubleshooting

<a name="faq-ts-directory"></a>
### None of the images are working. What did I do wrong?
If none of the images are working, you are either using an older version of ES-DE that doesn't support WEBP images or you have placed the images in the wrong directory.

WebP is only supported in ES-DE versions X.X.X and higher. Either upgrade to the latest version of ES-DE or download the lossless PNGs from /src/.

If you are on the latest version of ES-DE and still not seeing any images, then it is likely you have placed the images in the wrong folder.

Images should be placed in the following folder:

``` ~/ES-DE/downloaded_media/androidapps/covers ```

In most cases, ES-DE folder is either in the Home folder of your system NAND or the base folder of the SD Card. The exact name and location of the ES-DE folder is determined by the user when installing ES-DE.

From here, make sure you are navigating to the correct system directory within *downloaded_media*. In most cases, this is *androidapps*, but in some cases this may be *emulators* or some other custom implementation. Once you are sure, you are in the right system directory, make sure you placing the correct asset in the right folder. For example, **covers** need to be placed in */androidapps/covers/* and **marquees** need to be placed in */androidapps/marquees/*. Placing images directly into */androidapps/* will result in the images not being readable by ES-DE


<a name="faq-ts-wrong-image"></a>
### I'm not seeing the right image for X application. 

This is due to a filename conflict. Filename conflicts occur due to one or more developers using overlapping Display Names for Android. Though every APK has a unique package name, the Display Name is selected by the developer and is not necessarily unique. ES-DE generates shortcuts to applications using the Display Name and looks for media that is named exactly the same. 

When there is a filename conflict, the app that is most widely used is provided as the default image. Alternative images are provided with the name of the application in parantheses.

For example, both **Material Files** and the default **Android File Manager** both use the Display Name "Files." Because it is by far the most often used app, media files for **Android File Manager** are named *Files.webp*. Media files for Material Files are named *Files (Material Files).webp*.

To use **Material Files** instead of **Android File Manager**, simply rename all available media files from *Files (Material Files).webp* to *Files.webp*.

To use **Material Files** *in addition* to **Android File Manager**, you will need to name one file *Files.webp* and another *Files (1).webp*. The order in which this needs to be done depends on the order in which ESDE imported your apps.

This entire issue will be solved as native Android metadata scraping is added to ES-DE, but for now it cannot be avoided.
